9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong. You're watching the
China Show. I'm Yvonne Man with David
Ingles.
>> We are counting down to the open of
markets in greater China. Let's [music]
get to your top stories today. Asian
stocks extending a volatile week as oil
climbs yet again. As you can see, we're
close [music] to 100 again on Brent. You
have this escalating Middle East war
outweighing a plan by some nations to
release crude reserves. [music]
>> Strains in the private credit market
also hurting investor sentiment. A wave
of redemptions [music] forcing firms
like Morgan Stanley to cap withdrawals
from their multi-billion dollar funds.
Also ahead, Chinese tech stocks in focus
[music] as Beijing tightens curbs on an
increasingly popular OpenClaw AI agent.
>> And [music] Guotai Junan says one
employee was detained after Hong Kong
authorities raided his office and that
of fellow broker Citic Securities.
>> [music]
>> I think the headlines [music] speak for
themselves. It could be a bit of an ugly
morning here today when it comes to
Asian markets. You add kind of the
concerns around $100 oil. Once again,
here we go again. Um, despite what we're
hearing from the IEA, from the US about
releasing strategic reserves, it's not
really doing much for the oil price here
right now. And then you add, you know,
the OpenClaw warnings. You add about
private credit. You add about this raid
of brokerages in Hong Kong. It just
spells like bad news today. Yeah, just
really not a lot of any good news today
that we can sink our teeth into at least
on a sort of macro level. And it's, you
know, you tie everything together and
you get a market where 100 in Brent, you
know, 160 on dollar yen.
Um, you have the credit space acting up,
right? So, whether that's private
credit, wide spreads are widening when
you look at IG and high yield obviously
from a very, very tight starting point
as well. And, you know, it you
extrapolate that and is it is our our
growth forecasts currently too
optimistic? Do we need Are we poised to
see some earnings downgrades as it
pertains to equity markets and you know
how far is a recession still a massive
tail risk at this point in time,
especially if oil remains at a hundred
for a prolonged period of time? I I
think it's interesting.
The BI folks there
Ziad
in the Middle East
>> they modeled this out.
>> They're starting to change the models.
Ziad
you know when they talk about it's not
about intensity anymore. It is still
about duration of how long that Strait
of Hormuz is going to shut down and
they've been changing their models
saying one month of closure Brent could
hit 105 but they're talking if we do hit
three months
of basically effectively closure there
we're talking 164 levels for Brent here
which which sounds just insane at this
point but
as we continue to see these mixed
messages from the US side of things of
how this is going to end I think you
know volatility is here to stay and
we're going to be talking about this for
some time unless there is something in
the in the in the works here to put
things into an end. Yeah, and how how
quickly does it come to an end right
because there's a duration mismatch
between say these massive reserves being
released into the market and when people
actually feel that and get that supply.
>> When oil infrastructure is actually
repaired right which could take months
as well. Yeah. Um but yes that's just to
say markets are on fairly weak footing
right now when you look at the risk
appetite and the premium that's been
built into the markets on the back of
everything everyone and I just mentioned
here.
So yes we are closing in again on a
hundred bucks on Brent crude. We were
closer about an hour back
when things opened on Brent 160 is on
the cards question mark. We are closer
certainly to that level. We have some
key technical levels though to get over
as we approach 160 on dollar yen. It is
that familiar dance though across these
markets where oil is up yields are up on
the back of inflation expectations.
Bonds are obviously not doing well.
There we go on your screens. 11 basis
points in the Aussie 10-year yield.
We're getting Singapore also coming
online. I'm looking at my screen.
Singapore 2 years up seven basis points.
The dollar is again doing the dance to
the upside. And when it does that, this
is what happens to equity markets. We're
on offer, but the silver lining though,
just to note, is that we're really not
seeing the extent of the losses on
Monday, right? So, it's mostly still an
oil and an FX story and a rate story,
not so much an equity market story.
Going into the open today, Shanghai all
coming up on your screens. A50 futures
and dollar China given this resurgence.
Dollar that we're seeing going into this
Thursday open 25 minutes away. Yeah, and
I think it goes back There was a great
interview that I think Surveillance did
with Jeff Currie from Carlyle.
There's no amount of policy out there
that is going to be enough to stop the
ascent of oil prices cuz it's not just
the headline numbers of how many
millions of barrels that they're going
to be able to release. It's about flow
rates and how quickly they can actually
do that. And and you know, this is
probably why you're seeing oil traders
really ignore some of the the the
signals that we're hearing from the IEA,
from President Trump on those measures
to stabilize prices. Let's take a
listen.
IEA countries have unanimously
decided to launch the largest ever
release of emergency oil stocks in our
agency's history.
IEA countries will be making 400 million
barrels of oil available.
I repeat,
400 million barrels of oil available to
the market to offset the supply lost
through the effective closure of the
straight.
The markets holding up well.
I figured it would be hit a little bit,
but we were hit
probably less than I thought, and we'll
be back on track in a pretty
short while. Prices are coming down very
substantially. Oil will be coming down.
That's just a uh
uh that's just a matter of war
that happens where you can almost
predict it.
Yeah, that we're still waiting for uh
oil to really come down as the president
was putting it there. Are the US also
releasing 172 million barrels from its
strategic petroleum reserves? To put
everything together for us out of
Singapore as you can see on your screens
now, our oil trading reporter RONG WEI
Neo is is here with us right now. Uh so
obviously oil prices are again melting
up. Uh talk to us about the latest
developments that are effectively
creating these conditions right now.
Well, of course um all eyes are on the
release of strategic reserves that was
just approved uh by the IEA as we've
heard earlier. And as President Trump
has said, he hopes that oil prices will
go down. But unfortunately, at today's
open, things doesn't quite uh things
didn't quite swing that way. Now, uh to
break it down to break down the numbers,
although the US has uh said that they
will release about 170 million barrels
of uh oil from the reserves, um as
Yvonne has mentioned earlier, all these
will actually take time to flow into the
market. There is kind of like a lead
time uh for them to do so. They have to
complete sales, and then there's the
logistics as well. And also to put
things into perspective, right now, um
US's strategic petroleum reserves
currently stands about 400 over 400
million barrels. It's about 60% filled,
but you can imagine that the amount that
they plan to release is nearly half of
what they already have. So, um I believe
that a lot of people in the market,
market watchers, are looking at this.
They're not just digesting the headline
number, but they're also uh taking a
wider perspective on what this release
actually means. And being strategic
reserves, being strategic reserves, they
ultimately have to be filled at a later
date. So, um all that would also uh
weigh on the traders' minds as well.
Yeah, and when there was also a headline
that came through about Iraq also
halting their their ports being
completely stopping operations there. I
mean, it seems like the supply situation
is actually getting worse in the Middle
East.
All right. So, of course, if we talk
about middle-term to long-term measures,
there is the release of strategic
petroleum reserves that could help
alleviate supply risks
in the oil market. But, let's not forget
that there is a war that's actively
raging on, and we can really see the
impact. So, Iraq has said that its port
its oil terminals would stop operations.
That's because two tankers were hit
offshore, and that really I would say
it's a rude awakening for traders to
remind them that despite all these
policies and measures that are being put
in place, what's really immediate right
now are the current supply risks. So,
two oil tankers
um
that kind of stocks fear in the market
that basically all these tankers around
in the Middle East actively carrying
billions billions of dollars worth of
oil could actually be hit. And the with
some of these ships not being properly
insured, that could lead to devastating
financial losses for a lot of people
along this trade supply chain as well.
So, we believe that that's one of the
key drivers that is really pushing up
oil prices at this current point in
time.
Uh we were speaking around this time
yesterday on you know, what what's going
on or what isn't going on
in the Strait of Hormuz. Do we have any
more clarity currently on the situation
there?
So, unfortunately, things haven't quite
I would say there wasn't any substantial
development over the course of the day.
We are hearing things
like actually it's similar to a stream
of information we've been getting over
the past few days.
Talks about ships, not just oil tankers,
but bulk carriers, container ships that
we're looking to transit through the
Strait of Hormuz as well.
It's unclear whether
if any or most of them have actually
made it across. There's also talks about
attacks and some turning back. It's a
very hectic situation. We can call it
like the cloud of war that is currently
hovering over the area. Information,
it's not coming it's not coming out as
coherently as we would like. And a lot
of our work right now is actually to
it's actually focused on verifying a lot
of these market chatters, I would say
user generated content UGCs and videos
we're seeing on social media on social
media on feeds like X. And chatting with
the people involved in the trade on how
all these images that we're seeing
online are actually translating into
actual impact in oil trade.
Yeah, needless to say I know your team
has been busy. Ron Win will you do get
back to your desk and really track all
these things that are going on. Ron Win
Neo there, oil trading reporter joining
us from Singapore. Now after of course
Tencent, Minimax, and Jidu, Baidu has
released its own version of open claw.
Now it's called Du Claw. The service
that allows users to assess the and
access the open claw agent through its
Baidu AI Cloud. Let's bring in Belle,
our Asia tech correspondent. Joining us
now. So
we'll talk about more about the
regulatory scrutiny later, but tell us
about what Baidu is offering now.
Yeah, well essentially as you said we've
we've sort of seen its peers doing it
and now it's come out overnight in the
last 12 hours or so, but essentially
yeah, it's it's it's a service that lets
users gain access to the open claw
agent. They're saying that the point of
difference on this one is that it's it's
easy for non-technical users because
it's got what's called uh zero
deployment. So, so
others require some level of of uh of
setup or environmental configuration, uh
but but this one's allegedly or
a lot easier to use, or that's what
Baidu is saying. The price point on this
as well, I mean, it's around $2.50 a
month. Uh so, so relatively cheap to
access, but I think it's interesting
that even though you saw this being
released, as I said, about 12 hours ago,
you didn't see that same lift in ADRs.
Uh which I think does point to yes,
you've got that that broader scrutiny,
but maybe some of the heat coming out of
this this trading activity as well
around these stocks. Mhm. Well, speaking
of heat, uh
enough attention over the last 24 hours
to garner regulatory scrutiny. Yeah,
that's right. So, we had a Bloomberg
scoop on this, and and just talking
about what the government is doing now,
and essentially what we understand from
our sources is that they're moving to
restrict uh the the the use of of open
claw
uh at SOEs, and also government
agencies, and that includes the largest
banks and the companies. So, they don't
want uh staff or or people to be using
open claw AI apps on office computers.
So,
we we understand that comes down to
security reasons. I don't really think
that's any sort of surprise. Uh some of
the cybersecurity experts we've spoken
to have have said that you've
essentially got a lethal trifecta here,
uh because you're you're giving the
technology access to a lot of private
data. It's got the ability to
communicate externally. It's exposed to
untrusted content. There's plenty of
case studies online where where you can
read people's reviews, and and and and
open claw has essentially gone rogue or
or has been tricked by malicious
software. So, this move from China, of
course, attracts greater scrutiny or
concern because we see generally that
they're they're they're they don't like
to see control around this, and and
you've seen, of course, the various
crackdowns, and and that great internet
firewall as well. Uh but but uh
the reaction from my Bloomberg
Intelligence team and Robert Lee in
particular has been that this isn't
necessarily something that restricts
private the private sector essentially
and you may still see people continuing
to to engage and interact with Open Claw
through the the various services that
are now offering them like Baidu but
Tencent MiniMax and Jidu.
Yeah, so we might still see those
lobsters out there.
Can't get enough
>> Don't give up the hats just yet. Yeah,
so while we do realize as Robert Lee
said the wider adoption of this uh
technology certainly one thing to to
look at in terms of the flags that are
being raised around the security side of
things. Bell, thank you.
Our animal drillers there. And make sure
to check out that explainer too. Saritha
Rai wrote a really good piece about
this.
>> question. About, you know, is Open Claw
really that AI marvel that we've been
talking about or is it a cybersecurity
nightmare? There's a good explainer out
there. Make sure to check it out this
morning. Yep, there we go. Yeah. Coming
through as well here. It's been quite
the start to the year. Here's a
>> [music]
>> statistic for you. Okay, I'm getting
having trouble getting the Uh we are set
for the third biggest quarter in terms
of the jump in oil prices
>> [music]
>> in the last 40 years. How does that
affect the equity market's outlook?
Soften will be joining us in a couple of
minutes to lay out their scenarios
[music] for us.
Coming up today open the markets in
greater China 15 minutes away Shanghai,
Shenzhen and here in Hong Kong. This is
the China Show. Good morning.
All right, here's your agenda today as
we've been talking about. It is that
Open Claw frenzy. Of course, Baidu
coming up with its own sort of offering
that could be an interesting one to
watch here today amidst this regulatory
scrutiny which we've been talking about
from China. It is the last day of the
NPC. So that closing session is
underway. We're still waiting for some
credit data out of China. Earnings to
tell you about. Certainly they'll be
some ones in focus here given what we
have seen and what likes to this week
what who's reporting? Do you know, Dave?
Well, we have the whole So, we had
That's a good question.
>> my train of thought and then forgot what
I was
>> [laughter]
>> No no one blames anybody now for not
paying attention to earnings.
>> Earnings, right? How important are they?
We have the Swire Group coming out today
after There we go. So, it's Swire, Swire
Pacific. Obviously just talking about
Cathay Pacific was yesterday.
>> sorry. I also remember that. Li Auto.
Oh, yeah. Okay, so chips, generally
speaking, up On separate stories, right?
You might have seen, of course, the the
probe on that's taking place here in
Hong Kong. We'll get to that in in a
couple of minutes here. It pertains, of
course, to two Chinese brokers. We'll
get into the story a bit later on.
We're also looking at Baidu, of course.
We were just talking with Bell earlier
on and as well as the shipping angle to
this as well. Okay, now in terms of just
sectors to watch, everything from
precious metals, cyclicals, energy
remains very much in focus. Massive move
higher in the US session yesterday on
energy counters. The rest of markets are
not doing as well going into this this
this Thursday.
>> Yeah, here I give us a bit more Oh, what
to do next? Let's bring in the
>> That's a good way [laughter] to put it.
>> head of Asia equity strategy at Societe
Generale. Frank, it's always great to
have you.
It's not normal to be seeing moves like
this, wild swings in oil markets. You're
seeing equity markets, I mean, seeing 5,
6% moves in in some of these regional
benchmarks in here in in Asia.
What what do I do in the midst of all
this sort of headline risk now?
Well, we I I think the best thing to do
is to look at the investment
opportunities and
to look at
two things. One is that US market has
been super resilient. And you see as the
trend in earnings has been has remained
untouched. The second thing is that
we see the stronger dollar, but we still
remain in a big dollar environment. And
if we believe in this, the EM asset
story in general and especially the
emerging
Asia equity, the story is not over and
we are going to see some investment
opportunities.
Tell us why we should not worry about
this oil price spike and what that means
for growth and earnings.
Well, I I I I would not say that we
should not worry, but I think that it's
important to to look through.
And the title that I gave to my to to to
my outlook yesterday was it's a year of
anarchy, but that's not the end of the
bull market and the reason for that is
that you have anarchy, you have this end
of the liberal order, but it doesn't
mean that you have chaos. You have some
spike in volatility in some market and
we've seen this
very much on the Korean market,
but
it's still
something where you continue to have
earnings, you continue
to see but the positioning is pretty low
actually and you look at what has
declined in Asia.
It's been mostly what has increased the
most
>> Yes. since the beginning of the year.
So, it is telling you something more
about the positioning of the market than
really the fundamentals.
It is positioning at the end of the day.
That's why you are neutral when it comes
to the Taiwan markets, Korea here right
now.
Um
Have we seen the best of that market
now, you think? I think so, especially
in the case of the of the Korean market.
It's what we've called the three C on
Korea,
the concentration which is unprecedented
in in a very very small number of
stocks,
the cyclicality of the market.
You look at the long-term chart of
earnings in Korea. We are still in a
cycle. So, there has not been any
structural trend uh, of the growth.
Another three is a currency, and we have
seen this very unusual decorrelation
between the currency and the stock
market. It should reconvert at some
time. So, so we are not negative on
Korea, but uh, we think that being
overweight at this stage is maybe we the
the risk reward is maybe not enough.
Mhm. And just on the Taiwan note? Yeah,
what Taiwan is uh,
a little bit more stable given the the
weight of TSMC in the in the index. So,
you have [snorts] a little bit less
cyclicality on that on that market.
Um, and and maybe that's why you are
looking at overweight uh, when it comes
to China. Uh, we'll talk about India in
a bit, but China itself uh, has been
quite resilient, right? You take a look
at the beta in this market, the
correlations. It really is not is is a
little bit more insulated.
>> a time deposit, actually. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Is that diversification play? I
mean, how how do you still play it now
in China? Yeah, yeah, so it well, it's
it's a diversifier. We've seen this uh,
in the bond market and the beginning of
the decade and only Chinese government
bond did uh, did well. Uh, in the
context of equity today, it's not only
the low beta to uh, the global market,
but it is also what you see uh, in the
technology sector, especially this uh,
localization of the supply chain, and
you have a different ecosystem that what
you have in the US. And Korea, Taiwan
have been very much in the US ecosystem,
and so they have uh, benefited a lot,
but we need to look as well as a
diversifier of what we see in China,
especially in the hardware technology,
but also uh, in the old economy sector.
Frank, [snorts]
we'll have more from you. Please stick
around. Uh, Frank Benzimra there, head
uh, of Asia equity strategy at uh,
SocGen. Uh, what's the final thoughts,
of course, in a couple of more minutes.
Uh, just very briefly go before we head
to the break here, seven minutes to the
opening bell, and we are called lower
across these markets, which is fairly
consistent with the move we're seeing
across the region. Down, but not down by
a lot at the moment. It's plenty more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Some stocks to watch here when it comes
to the brokerages. [music] Obviously,
given our source and our scoop about
Hong Kong authorities raiding the
offices of brokerages like CICC
Securities and Guotai Junan. Uh you are
seeing [music] Guotai Junan shares down
some 4% here this morning. What this
means, I mean, there are implications
potentially uh of what this means for
the IPO market, which has been quite
hot. That's why potentially [music]
we're seeing a Hong Kong exchange lower
here this morning. And Baidu as well,
joining in the fray after [music] we
heard from Minimax uh and Alibaba and
the like talking about their sort of
adoption of open claw. We're not quite
seeing that positive sort of tailwinds
[music] from that story here this
morning. Uh and yeah, we're watching of
course the pre-market in Hong Kong
today, Dave. Yes, [music] uh and we are
slightly to the downside about 33
minutes to the opening bell here. That's
7/10 of 1%. The usual
uh in terms of what is moving underneath
the hood here. [music] So, you have, as
expected, the oil counters Sinopec
PetroChina are up about 1 and 1/2 to 2%
in the early goings. The opposite is
true when you look at [music] HSBC,
Alibaba, AIA, and China Construction
Bank leading the early decliners there.
The opening bell is coming up next. This
is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Right, welcome back. Um,
market story is declines across equity
markets. Not a not a ton, not a whole
lot. Uh, orderly declines in the equity
markets. [music] It's really oil and FX
we're tracking very closely and bonds.
Right, so oil is near a hundred again,
98, 99 on Brent. Uh, dollar yen is at
about close to 160, [music] 158, 159.
Uh, and bonds are just acting up the way
you would expect given the spike in oil
prices.
>> Yeah, we were talking about what uh,
Ziad Daoud uh, from the economics was
saying, right? If this straight [music]
up from his closure goes into a third
month, they're talking about a hundred
and sixty dollar oil or north of that.
[music] You're starting to get more
analysts from the sell side. CBA is also
saying that Brent might hit 150 if this
[music] Iran crisis last month. So, that
continues to be the headline risk that
is weighing on these risk assets here
today. As we talked about, uh, it is
you're seeing that insulation at least
in that resilience in these Chinese
markets. We're pretty flat when it comes
to CSI 300. Uh, and we are seeing when
it comes to Shanghai crude, there you
go. Uh, being kind of following the
price of Brent and WTI. We are seeing
those futures in Shanghai surge once
again another 12 to 13%. Uh, and then
you take a look at some of these large
cap names like CATL, that continues to
be a really bright story after those
earnings came out. Capricorn Tech is the
next one to come through here. We're
flat uh, when it comes to stock here
right now, but certainly the chip space
will be in focus here today. Those
stocks though, that stock has been down
some 15% year-to-date though of late.
Uh, let's take a look at what it comes
to the rest of the Hong Kong markets
there. And and you are seeing more
moderately lower, um, but you know, it
it it is better than the rest of the
region, you could say. HS Tech uh, is on
offer here today. So, once again you're
seeing uh, maybe a bit of that, I guess
chill uh, given some of what the the the
regulatory sort of comment that we got
when it came to the use of open claw,
right? Our sources saying according to
our scoop that they are trying to curb
the use of open claw and at least the
banks and state agencies. Does that
change the whole wider adoption of open
claw in China? You know, our Robert Lee
says not quite. You're still going to
see the private sector engage in this in
a big way. Baidu certainly is the next
one to join in on the fray. But then
again, we're seeing at least risk off
across the tech space here given some of
these Iran headlines. You are seeing the
likes of Meituan down more than 1%.
Marginal moves though, but you are
seeing when it comes to the property
space HSBC also down some 2% here this
morning. The currency is slightly on the
weaker side. But of course, it is of
course a dollar strength coming through
here given these risk off moves that
we're seeing around the Iran Iran
situation. Oil is approaching of course
100 once again. So this is what we're
watching out for with some of the oil
giants in China. Mixed picture here so
far in terms of the shipping space as
well, the energy space. But you are
seeing PetroChina at least up about 1%
this morning. Autos has been in focus
obviously. We have Li Auto earnings
coming through later later on today, but
there is of course that sales drop that
we saw when it came to car sales
15%. So of course as we talk about these
subsidies ending, that has deepened in
fact that holiday slump when it comes to
car sales. A mixed picture across some
of these EV makers here today. And of
course we're watching the brokerages,
right? This the scoop that we had about
Guotai Junan Securities or offices
raided here in Hong by Hong Kong
authorities. You are seeing Guotai Junan
shares down some 5%. Yeah, just a brief
look at across equity markets and update
if you're curious where we are.
Let's see if Taiwan coming online this
hour. There we go. We're down about half
of 1% to about 1% between the major
benchmarks. Bond markets, the our 10s
coming up on your screens. Aussie's up
double digits. We're looking at India
futures as well. 24,000 we've taken that
out on the Nifty and we are set for a
5-6% drop so far this month, which is
something that is quite rare
in that in that market. Still with us
here for some final thoughts is Frank
Benzimra, head of Asia equity strategy
at SocGen. Well, I'll ask you about
India, maybe Japan if we have time in a
moment, but just to close your thoughts
on why Chinese markets have been
resilient. How much of that is down to
just
who owns things in in the market? Is
that down to just foreign and local
ownership?
>> Well, it's it's not only a low foreign
ownership, but this foreign ownership
has recently decreased and
you look at the fund which went into the
global emerging market, it went up very
sharply. The one which went to China,
the decreased. So, so you have this low
foreign ownership and I think this is
explaining a lot. And then you have some
some small specific element as the fact
that the currency has been very stable,
has been kind of on core, especially
compared to what we see in Korea, what
you see in Thailand. So, I think you
have this this element to to take into
account as well. Uh you mentioned also
you're you're expecting inflation to to
be maybe at a peak right now. I mean,
they did set that quite ambitious goal
of 2% inflation during NPC.
Are those kind of the worst days behind
us when it comes to deflation in China,
you think? You have still some
deflationary pressures. The housing
crisis is not over, but what you see,
especially when you look at the upstream
price,
you see some upward pressure. So, so
that's why if we think in terms of the
momentum, well, we are past the peak.
So, that's also another consideration
that we have in the in the investment
thesis on equity. Uh your call on India?
Do I buy this dip?
Uh that's going to be the story for the
second half in our in our view. So, what
we what we see today is
a recovery which is being delayed
with the price of coal putting some
pressure on the currency and foreign
outflow to to continue.
But you look at the earnings, well the
recovery is here. You look at the
relationship with the US, there is a
trade deal. So some of the
of the blocking point on the equity
market, well they start to be to be
resolved. Mhm.
Well, you're still overweight on India.
So
in the second half though, what what
would you be looking at as opportunities
then? Well, banks is an interesting is
an interesting sector in terms of the
valuation and in terms of the growth of
of credit.
Pharmaceutical is also one sector that
we are looking at. We continue to be
cautious
on the IT IT services. So that will be a
kind of a very long-term story, but
maybe not for this for this year. I
guess just as a final question, I know
it you're mostly if not purely equities,
right? But how are you looking at the
impact of
>> [snorts]
>> you know, higher the potentially higher
rates if inflation does hold up? And
when you look at what's happening in the
private credit markets, I know that's a
one pocket of the market, but it's
starting to show cracks. Yes.
>> Amidst the growth story, how does that
affect your world? Yes, so
well in in in several ways. So
if we see well we start to see some
repricing of the Fed.
When we get some more conviction that
the next move is not going to be a down
move, but an up move,
this is where we are going to be more
concerned of course in the in the Asia
Asia equity space.
>> Yeah. Private credit is
obviously one one one concern
that remain very much into the into the
US at the moment. And the flip side will
be how if it's really becoming big, how
it will impact the dollar.
Mhm. Okay, Frank. It's good to have you
Frank Benzimra, head of Asia equity
strategy at Societe Generale. Back to
our top stories now, Chinese brokerage
Guotai Junan says that one of its
employees was detained after Hong Kong
authorities raided its office. The raid
also targeted CITIC Securities local
unit. Let's bring in our Asia finance
and wealth management editor more on the
scoop with Lulu Chen here. What are the
latest in terms of what details we know
at this point? Well, what we know is
that the authorities raided the offices
of Guotai Junan and also the local arm
of CITIC Securities yesterday. At least
one senior executive was taken away.
They focused on the ECM desks and also
this is against a backdrop where we're
seeing the regulators really zooming in
on inspections of the quality of general
financial markets and also IPO work.
And can we deduce that those could be
the reasons behind behind the move?
Well, we don't know what the exact
reasons were for this specific raid and
also why this exact was taken away.
The SFC ICAC has so far not commented on
on the moves.
What's happened some some recent
developments in the past few months and
weeks might provide clues to what is
happening against a bigger backdrop. So
the regulators have said they've warned
banks of sloppy IPO work. And then last
week we also reported that they
tightened the approvals of so-called
license six
licenses permits for bankers. This is a
key permit for bankers who work at any
firms that want to sponsor IPOs. So the
the the scrutiny is on against a
backdrop where Hong Kong is seeing a
revival of financial markets and also
IPO booms.
It's a developing story and we'll be
tracking it.
>> Yeah, our BI analyst Shanny Wong kind of
had a reaction piece to of course the
scoop and saying that this could be a
potential red flag for the IPO market
and you know, given this intensified
regulatory scrutiny
amid Hong Kong's IPO boom poses a risk
to major investment banks operating in
the city.
What do you think other bankers and, you
know, firms are really looking at now
given this rate? I mean, is this really
going to be a a big warning
Yeah. Yeah.
Um well, for for any bankers working in
this industry, that they'll be tracking
this case closely and then also um
because you said um the the warnings
that authorities have already given out
to bankers about IPO work, it does put a
pause in terms of the amount of work
that they'll be taking on and also
they'll definitely be paying more
attention to the quality as well.
Okay.
Um Lulu, thank you so much for unpacking
what we know so far.
Uh we'll track it, obviously developing
story as Lulu was just pointing out
there. Asia finance and wealth managing
editor Lulu Chen here GoTo Gojek has
said its operations and finances remain
uh normal. Stocks related to this are
down and down quite a bit as as one
would uh expect. Okay. Um just ahead.
Yeah, we're talking earnings here with
GoTo's CEO [music] next after their
forecast for this year topped estimates.
Fintech was strong. This GoTo demand
>> [music]
>> certainly is on demand, I should say.
Uh it certainly was strong as well.
We'll get Hans Patuwo joining us next.
This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Right. So, welcome back. Um just pouring
through this earnings report coming
through here out of GoTo Group. Uh the
numbers are coming up on your screens
very, very shortly. We're looking at
growth, of course, in terms of revenue
going down to EBITDA
uh all the way through there. Uh beating
estimates, uh boosting momentum here for
the Indonesian ride-hailing and food
delivery company. I mean, of course,
it's rivalry with Grab and that's a
separate story, of course, we'll get to
uh in a moment. Joining us now is the
CEO Hans Patuwo joining us exclusively
here from from from Jakarta. Hans, good
morning.
Thank you for coming on the show. I hope
you can get straight into this, right?
So, you're looking at you provided some
guidance in terms of where you think
your profit will be this year.
My question to you is what assumptions
are you making on your top line that
gets you to that guidance of I think
it's 3.2 trillion rupiah.
Yeah. Well, thank you very much. I'm
very glad to be here. Um as you've
mentioned we have put out our guidance
for this year. We have baked in some
growth both on the on-demand side of the
business as well as on the fintech side.
But if I may to just provide a bit of a
background our 2025 adjusted EBITDA is a
significant improvement versus 2024.
Adjusted EBITDA for 2025 is about six
times or about 500% growth over the year
prior.
And we're seeing pretty good momentum
coming into this year and hence our
guidance for this year we're expecting
somewhere between 190 to 200 million
dollars of adjusted EBITDA which
represents about a 60% increase versus
2025.
The one thing though
I'll do want to caveat is we are keeping
a very close eye on oil prices and
certainly if oil prices remain very high
for sustained period of time they would
have an impact on the on the economy and
potentially impacting demand.
What I mean what I'm wondering what sort
of models or what are you kind of
tracking right now on on you know how
long
depending on how long this Iran
situation unfolds. I mean what do you
think the impact could be on your
earnings potentially if this situation
drags on for months?
I think that twofold right Uh on the one
hand certainly, if the prices oil prices
remain high, then inflation core
inflation in the country would will also
increase, and that would reduce the
purchasing power, which will affect the
ability for kind of our our on-demand
services business.
Um on the other hand though, we have two
cylinders firing, right? Not just the
on-demand service business, but we also
have now the fintech business. So, we
have some shall we say flexibility in
terms of where we focus our attention,
and where we overweight investment, um
and how we tweak the business moving
forward.
Uh even on the on-demand service side,
uh we have a fair amount of of our
customers who are on the affluent user
base. And typically, what we see is that
the affluent user segment tend to have
uh their demand tends to be uh less
elastic. Um they're more willing and
able to pay. So, we think that there are
some wiggle room,
um albeit this is still something we're
keeping a very very close eye on.
Uh Han maybe just one last question on
oil before we move on. And you speak of
on-demand, and that's a good thing, of
course, that the you know, the sort of
elasticity conditions
are not as extreme that you might be
able to weather that. But have you
modeled, just in case, because it's rare
we get oil prices moving so quickly into
where they are currently? Uh and I
wonder, are you just is that going to be
passed on to the consumers? How are you
looking at this uh in terms of
scenarios?
Yeah. I think there are two ways to look
at this. Um so, one of it is we look at
um at at oil prices. Um
some of the oil prices in Indonesia are
still
um relatively subsidized. So, we need to
to see what is the movement of the oil
price here on the ground, uh
particularly for our ride-hailing
drivers, because you can imagine that
they're using more of the two uh
two-wheelers. So, these are these tend
to be the lower price, uh more
subsidized fuel. So, we need to work
with with the government to to try to
understand, you know, what is what is
going to be the policy moving forward.
Um on the other hand, in terms of
providing relief, I think there there
will be an an element where we may have
to think about providing potentially
surcharges uh to
to our let's say our affluent orders,
while at the same time seeing what we
can do to cut costs elsewhere to help
offset the increased cost for our driver
partners.
Um
There There's one thing that analysts
noted, which was your gross transaction
volume growth, uh which was in the
single digits uh of 2%. What do you
think that's a symptom of? Is it a sign
of just this market is too saturated? Is
there any way to actually boost those
numbers, you think?
Oh, absolutely. Uh so, I think what
we're seeing is if I take a step back,
right? Now, again, we have two
businesses, the on-demand side, Gojek,
as well as the fintech side, GoPay. On
the on-demand side, um we have been
focusing on profitability. So, our
margins in 2025 have expanded. Uh we
ended the year 2.1% versus 1.1% a year
ago.
Um on the GTV side, it has grown 7.5%
and, you know, to be honest, I think we
aspire for number higher than that. Now,
your question's about transactions. Uh
and that flows on down. So, what what
we're seeing is that uh we there are two
very clear distinct segments in
Indonesia. The affluent consumer segment
and then the mass market consumer
segment. And what we're seeing is that
for the affluent consumer segment, um uh
their GTV is increasing. Uh they're
transacting more, their basket sizes are
getting bigger.
Um however, where we have homework to do
is on the mass market. You can imagine
for the mass market, the basket sizes
will be lower,
um and the number of transactions will
be fewer per user, but uh this will be
quite a lot of transactions given that,
you know, vast majority of the
population in Indonesia are still mass
market. So, we have homework to do. Uh
we need to grow significantly our
transactions in the mass market
all of these lower basket size um of
orders, and we need to do so not with
additional spend or discounting,
but rather with building new
capabilities that can serve this segment
at the lower at the lower cost point.
Right. Let's pivot. Maybe Hans, let's
talk about fintech.
Would you say that that specific
business is more insulated? How much
visibility do you have over growth this
year specifically on that unit?
We are very, very excited about fintech
by its trajectory in the past, and we
think it will continue to grow at a
rapid clip this year.
If I may, right? The story about fintech
story really started a several years
ago. And you know, going back very
briefly, you know, to 2021, we laid the
foundation by really overhauling and
re-architecting our back-end systems.
And then in 2022, we launched credit
scoring ability and lending.
We followed that up in 2023 with
launching of the standalone payments
app, the GoPay app. We started to see
all these three come together in 2024,
and in 2025, it's just really, really
taking off. We see continued momentum in
2026, and we think it will continue to
grow at a fairly rapid clip this year.
Everyone's talking about AI, Hans. I'm
just wondering, how are you integrating
AI into your technology and of course
your platforms here right now and in
terms of, you know, cost savings,
productivity? Can you give us a bit more
stats on really how what sort of
traction you're getting so far?
Yeah, so AI is everywhere
all at once.
I think okay, three major pillars that
we are thinking about, right? So, number
one certainly is is cost efficiency.
Look, we're we're trying to figure out
what is it that we can we can do
whatever we do today
in more efficiently, more effectively. I
think that's that's part of the course.
I think the second area where we are
spending a lot of time
is building up capabilities specifically
around personalization.
Right. And the main goal of
personalization what we're aiming for is
to increase conversion rates. And this
spans the whole spectrum, right? From
having much more much better AI in our
KYC processes which as you know is very
critical for our lending business. All
the way to personalization of offerings,
configuration
automatic reconfiguration of the app and
basically having different consumers see
different things on their app and so and
so forth. That's a very very big effort
that we are putting on right now.
And then last but not least we're
spending quite a bit of effort on trying
to make sure that we use AI and machine
learning to further improve our core
processes. Two major core processes that
underlie the entire business. One of
them is our allocations. So we are using
machine learning advanced AI to think
about how to take that to the next
level. And the second core capability is
our credit scoring ability which of
course underlies our lending business
and is the profitability driver for our
fintech business.
Mhm.
Okay. Hans,
apologies I did just need to be thorough
here. When does the last financial
metric turn positive? I'm talking net
income.
So we have a plan.
And we hope that it will be very soon.
We will not be able to to diverge to
diverge details, but you know if I think
about the whole story, you know, we we
we were able to adjust it a bit of
positive couple of years ago. Now both
units have done adjusted a bit of
positive.
And clearly clearly net income is is the
next goal. And we have we have a
timeline in mind. I just I'm not able to
share right now.
But it won't be too long. That's the
That's aspiration.
Okay. Can Can I just ask maybe maybe you
could divulge some information on this
next question. Where are we on the the
conversation with Grab?
I'm not able to speculate on this point
I'm afraid. I think
what I can say is that
we obviously are as a public company in
Indonesia we are regulated by the local
authorities and you know we had filed.
So we are we have the obligation to to
inform the local authorities
about on the capital market authorities
where things are at. We made a filing
last December and I think things have
not substantially shifted from there. So
I think that would be the
what I can share on this topic.
Hans we we certainly appreciate your
time and being candid of course where
you can and let's please do this again.
Thank you so much for for for joining us
today Hans Betouray the CEO of GoTo
Group in Jakarta for us. A reminder of
course for our Bloomberg clients and
viewers here our new online feature
that's the Bloomberg video app
subscribers can explore live streaming
news and interviews. All of our TV
shows, reporter analysis, documentaries
and all the breaking news over the last
couple of hours even minutes or so.
Check that out bloomberg.com/videos.
Yeah, now to another corporate stories
that we're following for you this
morning. Financial stocks in the US
exposed to private credit slipped
>> [music]
>> as a spate of redemption requests
rattled markets. Apollo says it's now
ramping up efforts to give its investors
more regular [music] regular insight
into the value of its private credit
holdings. Meanwhile Morgan Stanley
capped [music] redemptions from one of
its private credit funds that's after it
returned about half of the capital
[music] that investors sought to cash
out.
Japanese digital wallet provider PayPay
is said to be planning to price its US
[music] IPO at $16 per share below its
market at range. At that price PayPay
would have a market value of about $10.7
billion.
Sources say the [music] SoftBank backed
company is poised to price about 55
million ADRs, putting the deal on track
to raise [music] 880 million. And
sources say Netflix will pay as much as
$600 million for Inter Positive, [music]
the AI movie-making company founded by
Ben Affleck. It's one of the largest AI
deals by a major Hollywood studio.
[music]
Bloomberg's been told the actual price
paid in cash was less, but its owners
will earn more [music] if it meets
performance targets. Inter Positive
develops tools that allow filmmakers to
alter existing [music] footage. Right.
Let's have a look at these markets right
now, and I think most I think it's
probably accurate that most of us are
probably like the popular Ben Affleck
meme.
Um you know what I'm talking about. Uh
looking at Taking a breather. Taking a
bit of a breather [laughter]
given just developments uh where we are
right now. Every moving story, fast
developing. Uh we're looking at weight
loss drugs. Lilly, of course, to be
investing that amount, of course, in
China to boost their uh obesity uh pill
and uh conditions there. Right. Uh
Chinese markets [music] are actually
doing okay. Okay, and they have been an
anchor really throughout this storm
here. Uh CSI 300 is effectively been
trading in a very tight range amid all
the volatility out there. Uh so yeah,
this is the state of play 25 minutes
into the cash market session. Yep.
Coming up, we have more wrapping up MPC
[music]
out of Beijing as well. We have uh
Shaliang Jiang joining us next. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at HSI half hour into the session,
as we've been talking about uh
relatively speaking doing better. There
is some sun that's crossing through here
in in the skyline here this morning as
well, where you know, you are seeing
almost Chinese markets become almost of
a haven amidst all this volatility when
you have, you know, Brent approaching
close to 100 bucks once again. You start
to hear more about, you know, this is
more than just fear now what the oil
markets are looking at. The fear of
maybe potential uh supply losses. It
seems like right now the supply losses,
no, you know, it is actually happening.
And that this is not just something
that's transient or short-term, but
maybe something more structural, too.
It is. And I mean, we we first need to
get over the fact that it's hard to come
by supply.
And if you are able to come by supply,
you still have to pay a massive premium
for that, too, right? So,
uh it's funny how quickly our
perceptions change when we went from,
you know, oil was very recently in the
high 60s.
>> Yeah. And now we treat a drop to 85 as a
good thing.
>> [laughter]
>> And that's 40% up year-to-date. So, if
you think about it, this inflation thing
is here and we need to start modeling.
Let alone 150, right? And some of the
forecasts coming through here out of CBA
and some of the economics, you know,
that worst-case at 108 is now has been
moved back even further to 150, 160. And
you know, and that's if things go on for
months, right? So, CBA says $150 oil is
possible. BE says if we get 3 months of
closure on the Strait of Hormuz,
we get to 160 or even higher. So,
those those, you know, we talked about
what 108 was scary numbers. These are
getting scarier into scary territory.
That's why you're seeing stocks are on
offer here once again. And you take a
look at when it comes to how crude
markets are doing. Yes, we're at $98 for
Brent now, 93 for WTI. Shanghai crude is
kind of falling off that spike. Uh and
and really this is despite the fact that
you're hearing from the IEA talking
about, you know, the most amount of
strategic petroleum reserves they've
ever released is on its way. That's
despite the US also releasing their
strategic reserves as well. The market
is ignoring it at the moment, Dave.
Yeah, you know, a A of it is also
because of the mechanism through which
how the global price then gets passed
through
on to users on the ground, right? So,
that mechanism takes days if not weeks.
And then once things start to unwind,
how long does that sort of part of the
oil market start to heal? And that's
just to say, of course, what will be the
lasting impact of this in the event we
do get a quick off-ramp here. And what
rips higher is is still a key question
out there. Uh President Trump, of
course, to the point Yvonne just made
there, the release of emergency oil
reserves by the IEA would ease energy
pressures, he says. Well, the US is also
working to finish the job, as he says,
in its campaign in Iran.
Well, it's only good if you win, you
know, you can only do And we've won. Let
me say, we've won.
You know, you never like to say too
early you won. We won. We won the bet in
the first hour it was over.
Jill Disis, our news desk managing
editor, uh you're with us here right
now. I'm sure your team is just so busy
watching all of this.
What's the most important thing to
watch, you think, when it comes to Iran
now? I mean, look, I think at this
point, you know, you can listen to all
this rhetoric coming out of Donald
Trump. But as we know, I mean, markets
are now starting to kind of like put
this to the side because at the end of
the day, the thing that matters to
investors, to markets, is the fact that
the Strait of Hormuz is still basically
closed. Um and we've still seen um some
developments overnight, uh including um
you know, some some additional um you
know, attacks um on oil tankers um near
and Iraqi shores. So, I mean, there's
still that sort of threat of um you
know, that ongoing military action. We
still know that like a lot of this is
still unfolding. I mean, there's a lot
here uh that's basically telling the
market that um you know, you can listen
to Trump say all day that, you know,
things um you know, are coming to an
end. Um but at the same time, he also
kind of conflicts with himself uh and
with them some of members of the Trump
administration. You've got, you know,
sometimes he's like, "Okay, well, this
could go on for, you know, what, 5 to 6
weeks, 4 to 6 weeks, what have you?" Um
then he also says, you know, there's not
necessarily a timeline. So, you know,
the market's looking at that and saying,
well,
it's really difficult to figure out how
to interpret this, how unclear
everything is. And at the same time,
you've got a military strikes still
going on and that threat to supply that
just continues to persist.
Have they
I don't know how to phrase this
question. Have they spelled out what a
win looks like?
I mean,
you know, at this point it's still
really, really difficult to kind of tell
because, you know, you you had, you
know, before the new supreme leader was
chosen, you know, the son of the old
supreme leader who Donald Trump has also
said repeatedly in the past, you know,
there was an unacceptable choice. You've
got, you know, that idea of regime
change that's kind of entered the
equation. Obviously, you know, that's
kind of, you know, not necessarily
resolved, you know, potentially in the
way that Trump ultimately wants to see.
So, it's really kind of difficult to see
what exactly that looks like when again
you do have some of those conflicting
messages. I do think at the end of the
day, you know, obviously Trump continues
to project this kind of confidence over
where exactly things are headed, but
again, as we've seen, you haven't really
seen that kind of you know, unfold on
the ground. I think the other thing
that's really worth pointing out is that
at least from the Iranian side, you
know, one of the things that they want
to see in order to, you know, bring
forth a ceasefire is a pledge that even
after the war concludes, they're not
going to see additional attacks from not
just the US, but Israel as well. And
that seems to be something that they're
not entirely confident the US can
actually secure if there were to be a
ceasefire. So, I think that that's
another part of this too that just
really, really, you know, continues to
you know, hate to belabor the point, but
the uncertainty is such a massive part
of this right now. Jill, thank you. Jill
Dece is there, our news desk managing
editor on the all things related to Iran
here this morning. You can also check
out this piece from our team at
Bloomberg Economics, right? So, they're
modeling out what this could look like
if we're talking about not just days or
weeks, but months now.
Ziad Daoud, chief emerging markets
economist, saying, look, 105
is what we could see Brent prices if we
see 1 month of closure, 164 if we're
talking about 3 months where effectively
the Strait of Hormuz is shut. Yeah, this
has really become a regular daily read
for me. Fantastic piece and insights
going through and as they sort of
update their models given the
ever-evolving situation. They check that
out as well.
The other thing that we're talking about
to and perhaps adding to reasons why
this market is adding a further premium
going into pricing today, private
credit.
Here we go. The last 24 hours have seen
all these headlines coming through in
terms of are cracks starting to appear
or are these simply just cracks and we
can treat them as idiosyncratic
idiosyncratic events in and of
themselves. Morgan Stanley Clearwater
capping withdrawals.
You have of course the latest companies
to put place put in place measures to I
guess limit the caps on the ATM machines
if you want to take a banking example to
that too. Investors are seeking to
redeem of course more than the vehicles
currently allow.
Let's get the latest here and wrap
things for us and where exactly we are
in the story. Our Asia credit editor
Finbar Flynn is with us out of Tokyo.
Finbar, it's been a busy last let's call
it not just day or so in the space.
We keep seeing these stories come out
over private credit. What what's going
on? Is there a big picture here?
Good morning. Thank you. Yes, I was
listening to the start of the the
segment here and I can tell you that
asset managers here in Asia are saying
to me credit managers that they're more
concerned about private credit than they
are about the war in Iran. They are
really concerned. The the problem here
on private credit is this is a huge
industry with about 1.8 trillion in it,
but they've taken a segment of this
industry which is very liquid. It's
loans to junk credit companies or lesser
rated companies and they put it in a
retail focused sort of fund or funds.
And now these are much more skittish
type investors. They're they're wanting
some of those funds back. They're
clamoring for those funds back. We're
seeing, you know, double-digit
redemption rate claims in a quarter. So,
this is uh yeah, this is a
a very uncomfortable moment for private
credit and for our credit markets
globally.
Yeah, amidst this sort of investor
exodus, I mean, what is what do we need
to look out for next, Finbar?
So, I I I heard you mention some of the,
you know, the headlines. And I think
we're going to keep seeing a bunch of
these headlines because there's more
than a hundred billion in these type of,
you know, retailer-facing funds. And
we're going to see continued
first-quarter announcements, which will
detail these redemption claims, these
withdrawal claims. So, that's one thing
we have to keep an eye out. The other
thing is you saw that very uh I suppose
important story last night on JP Morgan.
And they have actually, you know,
restricted some lending to this sector
because they are looking at the loans in
these books. And some of them are at the
software. And you we know we we know all
the headlines about software and AI. And
they're restricting lending to some to
some private
>> [clears throat]
>> as much in their eyes.
Okay. Finbar,
the lots to talk about here. So,
I think we've addressed part of the
issue, which is
it it's almost like extreme
plane turbulence, right? So, so we know
it happens.
We know these are these these can be
individual events. The more we look,
though, the more we spot them. I think
is is another way of putting that. How
how is this affecting broader public
credit markets and spreads, if if at
all?
So, it's it's a great question. Um I
think PIMCO's president, he he put it
really well in a recent commentary. He
said, "It's not just the crisis of
confidence. it's a crisis of really bad
underwriting for part of the sector. And
we are seeing this trickle slowly, not
hugely into public into public markets.
Spreads are wider now. It's harder to
disentangle this from Iran and
everything, but
we're seeing wider spreads in public
markets. They're not hugely wider, which
is good.
I think even PIMCO is not expecting this
to result in a a larger credit crunch,
but oil and private credit and AI, they
are tied together. If we if we get into
a recessionary type scenario, it will
look very ugly.
Finbar, I mean, how do we look at this
in Asia? I mean, I know a lot of this
this headlines are coming from the US,
but we we've seen you know banking
stocks where you are in Japan really
kind of react to quite negatively to
some of these news that we've seen when
it comes to the private credit space.
What is the impact to Asia?
So, Asia fortunately actually in the in
the public markets, we can see that
spreads in Asia for the best rated
companies are actually still tightening.
That's a big difference from the United
States. Asia is still
a very much banked type of market and
the exposure to private credit in this
part of the world is less. But we also
here even in Japan, we have these
private credit funds from people like
Blackstone that are actually sold to
retail investors here in Japan as well.
So, we have to keep an eye on that. We
have to keep an eye on how redemptions
from this part of the world are going to
bubble up.
Finbar, it's great to have you. Finbar
Flynn joining us out of Tokyo. Coming
up, we're talking about NBC and wrapping
things up there in Beijing. Tsinghua
University's Shalya Jiang will be with
us to recap the highlights from the two
sessions and [music] what we could be
seeing here today and excessively the
impact of the Iran war on China. That's
next. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Okay,
um yeah, uh lots to get into here.
Okay, well, that's that's That was
Yvonne and I'm David. I almost wanted to
mouth mouth them while you were reading
the script.
>> try that one time, actually. We should
try that one time. [laughter] Um
>> Let's talk about ABC though. Um wrapping
up in Beijing later on today. For some
of the key highlights, let's bring in
our China correspondent Mim Mim Lo. She
joins us out of Beijing. Mim Mim.
Hey, David and Yvonne. Today, of course,
marks the closing session of the NPC,
but it's expected to be a highly
choreographed event. So, the parliament
will likely pass that 5-year plan and as
well as the government will report
without any major challenges. But, of
course, today also is the day when we
have Jamieson Greer, the US trade
representative, announcing that his
office will be uh launching probes into
over a dozen countries under Section 301
of the Trade Act, which focuses on
overcapacity. And, of course, timing is
terribly inconvenient, coming just a
couple of weeks before President Trump
is expected to come to China to meet
with President Xi, and certainly this
will push the trade and tariff agenda
back to the top of the agenda here. Um
so, joining us here to dive deep into
that, let's bring in our guest, Xiaoyan
Zhang, Associate Dean of PBC School of
Finance at Tsinghua University. Prof.
Zhang, thanks for joining us. I just
wanted to get what your What is your
reaction to the news we got from the US
this morning? How do you think China
will respond to that? Mhm. Well, thank
you, Mim Mim. It's a great honor to be
here.
Um this news came as a surprise to me. I
just got to know it. But, my rational
expectation is, you know, both countries
will fight for the best of their
nations. And, they have been experienced
in terms of, you know, back and forth
negotiations. I I hope something good
coming out of it.
What do you think is um
the baseline and the best-case scenario
that China would walk away from when
Trump and Xi meet?
I Well, world peace, right? And
international trade are not affected.
You know, during this very
special period of time, we're going
through a lot of turbulence in global
political environment as well as global
market. So, I think the investment
community community
Everybody is uh hoping for world peace.
And, you know,
um but of course, both countries will
fight for the best for their people.
This uh
renewal of the tariff battle uh
definitely puts China's uh growth
priority in focus, and it's pushed to
rebalance the economy towards
consumption. Based on what we have heard
from the two sessions so far,
do you think it's bold enough to truly
have people feel that tangible impact
that their incomes are increasing, that
they can be willing to go out and spend
more?
You know, uh let me put this into a
little bit of perspective.
Um for from the two sessions, I think
there two things going on in terms of
growth. Number one is there is a
national target of annual growth of 4.5
to 5%, which is set in a reasonable
pragmatic range. Now, to get there, it's
not easy. Given the enormous size of
Chinese economy, to get there, the
approach is to upgrade consumption. Now,
as you mentioned, Mimi,
um there is difficulty. People are
worried about, you know, people don't
have enough income, or they are
reluctant to consume. What I can tell
you is the government is committed,
okay? We have a bill toolbox, a big
toolbox of policy interventions,
um including physical uh subsidies,
including monetary policies, and we're
also increasing the minimum wage and
minimum pension for a large population
of China. So, if you ask me, I'm
positive and uh confident, and I know
everybody is uh committed to it. It's
not easy, though. Yeah, it's certainly
not easy, and I'm I'm curious because we
have seen uh China miss the inflation
target over the past number of years.
The focus has been very much on hitting
the economic growth target.
>> Mhm. To what extent should we take
seriously the government's intention to
hit that 2% inflation target this year?
I would uh take it very, very seriously.
You know, the purpose of the two
sessions is, you know, we have all the
leaders, all the departments are sitting
together to have a consensus where the
country need to be, right? And it is
also broadcast to the whole public. That
is what government is committed to do.
So far, I have to say, I'm relatively um
pretty confident in the, you know, the
goals that the the government has set so
far. They They They are very persistent
and consistent with their targets. We
also got the export uh and trade data
earlier this week, and I was
honestly very surprised by it.
>> Yeah. Do you think that is like a a
short-term blip, or is this going to set
the pace for trade in the future? And at
the same time, this sort of bolster
Trump's argument that China is
over-relying on exports. Do you think
that's fair? I'm very glad you raised
this question because when I look at the
media coverage and the work reports from
the two sessions, I have to mention that
now we are achieving a balance of
imports and exports. Let's just start
from exports. We have been doing very
well, right? For many, many, many, many
years. And we
have a lot of, you know, services,
products, exports. So, it's not I
wouldn't think of that as a short-term
level. We're doing pretty well. But then
on the other hand, two sessions this
time emphasize we want to increase
imports. Why increase imports? Because
we want to reach a balance. Now, if we
want to relate to the previous topic we
mentioned about consumption, if we have
a high-quality consumption, upgrade the
consumption, we need imports. And this
is also another way to get China
involved in global chain and or the
global trade. So, this time we're doing
fine with exports. We are also putting
more emphasis on increasing imports.
But right now, given what we are seeing
in the Middle East and the Iran war
bringing a lot of volatility and energy
prices, how What steps will China take
to protect against those energy
volatility, but also the disruption in
trade flows as well? Mhm. Very good. You
know, this is what everybody care about
for the past 10 days. Let's look at this
from a broader point of view. You can
see for the global market, the stock go
down, right? And the volatility
increase, commodity is increasing, and
dollar is challenged. Now, if you look
at the neighboring countries like South
Korea, if you look at South to Southeast
Asia,
we're going through negative news,
right? A lot of stock market index went
down a lot. Now, if you look at China,
let's see. You ask about commodity
price, but let's look at broadly the
overall capital market reaction to the
shocks, negative shocks. We have to
agree it's a negative shock. The market
went down, but they it recovered.
Volatility has been stable. So, China is
a place that offer some
stability,
um, decrease volatility at this point of
time. In terms of commodity price, we
saw price went up and down and then up,
you know, a lot of volatility. It
doesn't matter whether it's crude oil or
gold or silver or other things. You
know, when there is tension in
geopolitical environment, commodity
price will increase. Now, China is
connected to the global market. We will
go in We will have those of shocks,
negative shocks, but I think we, um, you
know, with our long-term planning of
industrial policy and with our reserve
on hand, you know, you asked me, "How
are we going to do it?" The first we're
going to stay confident. And, we have
very strong confidence in our
government. And so far, I don't see any
signs of slowing down,
uh, in the progress. I also see, you
know, some,
um, commodity prices going up in China.
Some commodity-related company stock are
going up, but I don't think it's going
to be crazy. All right. So, Chinese
market certainly proving more resilient
than some of the other regional markets
here. Thank you so much. That was
Professor Xiaoyan Zhang, the Associate
Dean of PBC School of Finance at
Tsinghua University. David.
Yeah, Mayman, great stuff. Thank Thank
you so much. Yeah, we were just
bantering earlier on that the, uh,
the A-share market has acted like a time
deposit, which is really valuable,
uh, given everything that's taking place
around. Uh, speaking of Speaking of, we
have some news coming through as well.
And this is fairly consequential because
this is really one of the few remaining,
uh,
ports, we believe, in operation. Oman is
said to be evacuating
uh, ships, uh, from an oil terminal that
sits, by the way, outside the Strait of
Hormuz as a precautionary,
uh, move here. Uh, it's one of the few
remaining ports from which Middle East
crude can be shipped to global markets,
of course, and that is a,
uh, fairly important point that, uh,
we're making here.
>> Yeah, according to our sources uh, there
who someone that who directly received a
notice from the port agent himself. Uh,
it says that Iranian attacks in the
region have made the waters nearby
unsafe. Uh, if you're talking about the
importance of this sort of port, around
1 million barrels a day of a money oil
are exported from Mina Al Fahal. So, uh,
that's according to some data
intelligence firm. So, certainly the
impact of this could be quite huge as
well. It just adds on to more of the
supply disruptions we've been tracking
around the Middle East here right now.
Uh, oil markets continue to stay quite
elevated where I'm talking still about
$98 for Brent. Well, I plenty more
coming up uh, when it comes to situation
still very fluid. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> We continue to follow this breaking news
when it comes to Oman. According to our
sources there that [music] they have
evacuated all vessels from its key oil
export terminal. We're talking about
Mina Al Fahal as [music] a precautionary
measure here. So, this is what according
to, uh, someone that directly spoke to,
uh, the or got a notice [music] from the
port agent here that Iran attacks in the
region have made the waters nearby
[music]
unsafe. We're talking about 1 million
barrels a day potentially that that
could be impacted [music] from Omani oil
that is exported from, uh, this key
port. So, certainly that could be even
more market moving in some ways as well.
It perhaps that's why Dave you're
starting [music] to see the likes of
CBA's effect are saying what, $120 to
$150 oil could is possible given the
fact that, you know, energy markets
still now are underestimating [music]
some of the supply risks out there.
Yeah, and you know, this is this one in
specifically is it's outside [music] a
Strait of Hormuz and it's one of the few
remaining ports through which Middle
Eastern oil can be then shipped
globally, right? So, if you're getting
one of more of these switches starting
to come offline, then the markets will
tend to react. It's also worth pointing
out that when you look at Brent prices,
markets have not yet reacted. Not to say
that they will, but we're not really
seeing a reaction in Brent markets as
[music] we speak. Plenty more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
All right, continue to [music] track
what it comes to oil prices here this
morning and bring you the latest when it
comes to Oman. So, our sources saying
that they will be evacuating ships from
the Mina Al Fahal oil terminal here
after these Iranian attacks have made
those waters unsafe. This is still
according to sources here right now, but
certainly
we are seeing what it comes to oil
market. They still remain elevated as we
talked about. Not seeing a huge reaction
from that story itself, but certainly
this is also a telling signal here of
just the supply disruptions that we are
still dealing with today. Now, the port
agent notice, according to our sources,
was that the amount of evacuation at
this point is a precautionary measure.
But you also are talking not just Oman,
but Iraq too earlier this morning. They
also talked about their oil ports are
completely not operating right now. So,
the supply disruptions continue. That's
why you're seeing Brent now hovering
around near that $100 mark once again
here. That's why Shanghai crude
continues to be up double digits here
this morning. And this is despite what
we've been hearing, right? When it comes
to what the IEA said this they're set to
release, you know, a record amount of
strategic petroleum reserves. You had
the US chime in a few hours ago about
how they're going to be contributing as
well on their their release. But we did
hear from Jeff Currie, a Carlyle Energy
Pathways Chief strategy officer, and he
believes that no policy response can
actually stop the rise in crude. He also
warns the damage from the war could take
months to unwind.
You've disrupted global supply chains.
This is not just a disruption of oil.
It's gas, it's fertilizers, it's metals,
it's petrochemicals. The list goes on
and on. And then you've disrupted supply
chains in countries all over the world.
The ships are in the wrong places. The
insurances have been canceled. You've
taken the pressure out of the fields
that you shut in in places like Saudi
Arabia or Iraq or
even in the UAE. I can just The list
goes on and on. The damage is going to
take months to unwind. But but I I want
to bring it to the immediate. There is
no policy response that can stop this
ascent in crude. None. And yes, you paid
this 400 million barrel headline. Flow
rate is what matters. You know the
maximum sustainable flow rate is 2
million barrels per day. So, 400,
that'll take them 200 days to get that
out.
And you put that in the context of a
disruption
of you know, let's net it out of this
you know, it's got to be somewhere
around 18 million barrels per day right
now. You're just a minuscule in terms of
offsetting it. So, again, I there's not
many options here. What would you call
this then? A PR campaign?
In terms of doing this? It's all they
have. They're going to do whatever they
can. But I think the key issue here,
keep the hoarding down cuz we know what
happened in the 1970s when you got the
hoarding.
You know, it created an increase of
demand of somewhere around 2 million
barrels per day. In the size of this
market, try 3 million barrels per day.
Yeah, there we go. Jeff Currie there
with
our team at Bloomberg Surveillance
there, John Ferro and the team there
with a fantastic interview on really
just context and this is an ever fluid
story that we're talking about. More in
the the news of course earlier on in
Oman which the I'm looking at Brent not
really reacting so far but this seems
fairly consequential and obviously we're
keeping on top of uh
uh the the breaking news story here.
>> Yeah, this is as what I think Anne said
a pretty interesting note about, you
know, there used to be a distinction
across these markets. At first I think
people were trading on fear
and now the supply concerns they say
that distinction no longer holds up.
That you're starting to see structural
risks here. It's not just a short-term
sort of flip uh when it comes to these
potential disruptions and that's why you
are seeing uh the likes of
>> 99 now. Oh, there you go. Uh $99 when it
comes to Brent. That's why you're
starting to see the likes of Bloomberg
Economics saying, you know, 160 oil in 3
months if that straight up or moves
continues to be shut for that long. You
also start to start you know, talking to
corporate execs about what the business
impact this could really have and I
think it was quite telling to have the
GoTo CEO Hans Tung just a couple minutes
ago on the back of their earnings,
right? And they said look, we're
watching oil prices very closely. They
they of course do ride, you know, ride
hailing,
food delivery and the like and said, you
know, we might have to start adding
these oil surcharges to some of their
clients and customers.
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's really where
literally the rubber meets the road on
the story, right? EM economies that are
getting punished because of this, the
fuel at the pump. Um you know, in the
Philippines for example, gas prices are
on the way up. Indonesia, these are not
you know, very elastic in the elasticity
to the sensitivity to to oil prices.
>> about stories of people lining up at gas
stations in Southeast Asia, right?
It is you're starting to see images that
really pop up around the world. Okay,
you know what? Uh can we keep on top of
the oil story right now because I'm
looking at Brent prices right now. We
are now at session highs in Brent at
99.73. So we're about 25 cents short now
on the most active contract of taking
out uh the 100 level. Uh Uh, this is
something that we're obviously going to
be following closely. Equity markets are
not going to like this. India, which has
been really pummeled of late, will
probably take this on the chin when that
market opens up later on. The rest of
the region, can we get an MSCI Asia
Pacific up, please, if we can, intraday
if we can as well, and look at these
markets. If Brent opened at a north of
99,
uh, we did dip back below the
towards the 97 handle, but as you can
see and as we speak now, we are inching
ever closer. There we go, 100 bucks on
Brent crude coming up on your screens on
the back perhaps of these news coming
through here. All right, here you go.
Um, we basically approached back to
those levels uh, since we saw basically
on Monday, right? So,
uh, it's been, you know, 4 days of
volatility and here we go, right? Uh,
we we continue to watch what what
happens and I think it is what the most
important thing as everyone we talked to
about is really the state of play at the
Strait of Hormuz. Uh, but yes, this
Omani port certainly is very very the
the next headline here that people are
contending with. When you talk about uh,
this is one of the few remaining ports
uh, that is actually still being able to
move Middle Eastern crude uh, and
shipping it around to global markets. If
that also is now effectively shut in in
the short term, you're talking about,
according to some data firms, a million
barrels a day of Omani oil that it that
is potentially now impacted uh, that
used to be exported from this port. So,
uh, that certainly is one thing to
watch. The the the risk-off session
across markets, it's been relatively
tame, I have to say. Mhm. I'm not sure
now that we've reached 100 once again,
what what what investors are thinking
about right now because it's interesting
too leading up to this. I was reading
this note from from UBS that was talking
about Taiwan specifically, right? that,
you know, the correlation from stocks to
oil prices have actually fallen in some
markets like Taiwan. And so maybe the
bigger catalyst is maybe the supply
chain and AI and video, you know,
there's a big event coming up as well. I
think what you mentioned about an a
market like India, I think it's a
different story because they don't have
that sort of AI supply chain, sort of I
guess It's not part of the index. Yes.
So, I think, you know, as Frank Benzimra
from Societe Generale said when it came
to India, you know, they're overweight,
but it could be a second half story
given that it is a delayed recovery now
because of the price of crude. Yeah, and
he acknowledged that as well. As you
have two markets in the Asia Pacific
that they're overweight, it's China and
India, and he says India, of course, is
despite the rating, it's we're going to
have to wait for that to really come
online. I should also mention Thailand
has also been hit quite badly. That
market also opens up later on as well.
So, we're watching all this very, very
closely. Sensitivity to oil prices, if
you're an oil importer, if your
currency's taking it, that's you know,
that's effectively the current account
deficit showing up in energy markets
right now and in the currency markets.
We're looking at India futures. Guys,
can we get that up, please, as well? I'm
curious what they're doing right now.
MSCI Asia Pacific last week checked is
we're falling on the benchmark itself.
Give me a moment here while I just
verify that. Go ahead.
>> Hong Kong now joining in on the sudden
of risk off moves here. We are now
deepening this sell-off here. Hang Seng
now see losses of more than 1%. Asia
Pacific is now lower by 1.6%. I might
have spoke too soon on this whole Taiwan
story. When you take a look at the TAIEX
and what's going on there right now,
we're lower by 1.6%. This is still, you
know, risk sentiment is still very, very
headline driven right now.
It is. It is. So, to to to anyone
perhaps that said we might be past the
hump, I think the price action and
sensitivity we're seeing across these
markets right now perhaps is evidence to
the to the opposite of that. Asia
Pacific now I can tell you is at session
lows at 1 and . Let's bring in Lanting,
too,
managing editor for Asia equities
joining us out of Singapore as we try
and unpack and follow this breaking news
story. Lanting,
take us through what's going on in your
team and how we're now looking to cover
this equity market sell-off that seems
to be getting traction as we speak.
Yeah, I think today the very much the
biggest story is the oil market, right?
As you guys were talking about, the new
risk is of emerging right now with the
reports on how two tankers in Iraqi
waters were being attacked. And also
Oman evacuating ships out of
oil terminal. So that is something that
people haven't really factored in
before. And that signals to investors
that risks to shipping is not just
contained in the Strait of Hormuz. It's
actually much more widespread. And then
you're now seeing, you know, people are
factoring that into stock prices just
because also Asia is the most vulnerable
to the shutdown of the Strait of Hormuz
and higher oil prices. So MXAP hitting
session low just now, and Hong Kong also
reflecting that kind of risks. And if
you look at that kind of drop versus the
US futures. US futures are actually a
lot more muted. So yeah, that just
basically showing that people are just a
lot more sensitive to that kind of risks
in Asia and when it comes to Asia
equities.
Um
Yeah, I mean it seems like it is a oil
price that is dictating
almost everything at this moment when it
comes to the equity space. I mean but
you add that to
some of the the headlines when it comes
to private credit even the open closet
of trade in China is is unwinding given
some of the regulatory scrutiny. Uh you
have, you know, brokerages in China
being raided. I mean it seems like
there's just more bad news really. The
headline risk is more than just Iran too
here in in the Asia Pacific.
Yeah, I think right now people are ready
thinking about protecting their
portfolios, right? What kind of hedges
they can put on. We've been asking
people what are they doing, you know, to
protecting their portfolios. People are
talking about of course using put
options, and we saw after the record
sell-off in Korea last Wednesday,
we see a record amount of put buying by
retail investors in Korea. So, that
activity is full on. And also elsewhere
in the equities market, you know, we're
here we're hearing people talking about
being more defensive, buying dividend
high dividend stocks as, you know, at
least they provide some kind of income
cushion.
And also, you know, the sector that is
more exposed to domestic demand is being
touted because they're less exposed to
macro risks globally. And of course,
liquidity, holding liquidity is a very
key thing that people are talking about.
So, cash is really the king right now.
Yeah,
Leanting,
thank you so much. Leanting to our
managing editor for Asia equities in
Singapore. I think cash is key to the
point Leanting was making. If the dollar
is stronger and in case you missed that
statistic, right? The record amount of
money that is being parked and is parked
in money market funds.
We'll we'll try and effort that for you
a bit later on, but yes, equity markets
are selling off. We spoke too soon. US
futures are now down 1% on the back of
this 10% surge in Brent prices.
Now, just to also reiterate in case you
missed a breaking news story, the
reporting out of Bloomberg is that ships
are being asked to steer clear
of that port as a precautionary measure.
It is a port, one of the few remaining
ones outside the Strait of Hormuz that
does remain operational. We haven't
heard just yet from the port itself. The
news flow though suggests that markets
are reacting first and asking questions
later. Yep, and I think the the
knee-jerk reaction is buy the dollar,
sell stocks, and and bring up the price
of oil to now $100 for Brent. So,
[music] certainly that is going to be
the fear so that we're seeing when it
comes to risk sentiment here today. And
that's despite, of course, the IEA with
that a big announcement about that oil
reserves release. [music] So, we're
going to watch EMX, for example now
getting hit and slammed quite hard here
in the region this morning. We'll have
plenty more and check on these markets
coming [music] up. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> All right, in case you missed it, we're
back to 100 bucks oil when it comes
[music] to Brent here this morning. This
is on the back of our sources telling us
that this key Omani port
they've been urging vessels to basically
avoid this port here right now. So, that
the supply disruptions continue and you
are starting to see, you know, the the
the risks to that and what's happening
with Strait of Hormuz are much larger
than even what the IEA can handle when
it comes to releasing these strategic
reserves and you're seeing that be
reflected across risk assets here. So,
with a $100 Brent, obviously we're
talking about stocks are so sold, dollar
is catching a massive bid and we're
watching bonds continue to be in a route
here right now. Yeah, I'm I'm looking
across my global macro movers here on
the Bloomberg terminal as Ivana is
pointing out equities are down recession
lows there. The currency market and the
yen is actually how it's being expressed
as it pertains to if you're an oil
importer and that's your currency,
you're probably seeing your currency
come under pressure.
We are back to 100 bucks on the most
actively traded contract here on Brent.
So, we opened
just above 99, we gave back most of
those early gains, but as you can see
now the headline is up about 10%
currently on Brent crude. Bond markets,
Aussie 10-year yield 10 basis points at
the upside, the short end as well as the
bond markets are also feeling
the pinch. I think if our map is ready
on the Bloomberg terminal, you can
actually find the specific port. What
we've done is we've just placed it as a
placeholder and just to give you a sense
of the relative area. The top part
that's the Strait of Hormuz, where
things of course narrow. The port
specifically in question, and our
reporting to be clear, suggests that
ships are being asked to stay clear of
that port right most side, that very
tiny yellow circle on Muscat is in the
Oman, is where this specific facility
is uh is in place. Uh we have yet to
hear, by the way, from the port itself,
but yeah, you have more context in terms
of what this port means in the region
and how much uh output we have here,
too.
>> We're going to get some more context
from the scoop about what sparked this
evacuation order. This is after drones
struck fuel tanks at Oman's Salalah port
on Wednesday, while others were
intercepted. This is according to the
state-run Oman News Agency, which cited
a security source. Uh Salalah,
meanwhile, has since suspended
operations at its container and general
cargo terminals, while other Omani ports
are working normally. So, uh this is why
we're seeing some of these evacuations
are getting a bit more uh it's spreading
a little bit more, but this just goes to
show how the crisis that we're seeing
when it comes to the Middle East is
deepening and now threatening oil
shipments from terminals outside of the
Hormuz Strait, as well. So, it's not
just the Hormuz waterway itself, but
even what's around and surrounding it,
right? So, uh when you talk about
loadings from Fujairah in the UAE, it
also outside the strait are continuing,
but some ship owners are also avoiding
the port now due to the risk of attacks.
So, certainly there is, you know, that
disruptions. The Saudis, meanwhile, is
still sending oil through this pipeline
uh to Budnyan on its Red Sea coast. So,
there's still that that's going on, but
we're still talking about a million
barrels a day of Omani oil that is
exported from this Mina Al Fahal port.
Uh so, certainly the impact is big. You
you talk about the supply risk, of
course, and really disruptions there,
and then now you have to start to deal
with now not just the physical
shortfalls, according to CBA, Dave, but
also the demand destruction that could
unfold, too. Yeah, 150. That was the
forecast coming in through from Vivek
and his team and his team there at CBA.
They're putting their latest projection,
worst-case projection, I believe, uh
about 90 minutes back. If the conflict
is not resolved, we're looking at a risk
of rising to levels not seen in history.
We're not trying to scare anyone here.
That is, of course, I'm just reading his
note verbatim here. Prices could then
rise even further if advanced economies
need
to set the price for demand destruction.
In other words, you get to a point on
the demand curve on oil where it becomes
counterproductive for both buyers and
producers of oil because it simply
prices out most people that can't afford
it. It becomes a political issue. Uh
we've talked at length about this
earlier in the week when we did cross
above 110.
Not to say we're close to that at this
point, but we started out it it was it
was this time yesterday when we were
trading in the low 80s, I believe, and
here we are yet again with three digits
on Brent. It brings us back to around
this time on Monday, right? When when
this all first unfolded and we woke up
to $100 oil. Uh we are now back to that
possibility. And uh and maybe not just
the potential of what this means for
inflation expectations. That certainly
is uh one thing to watch. I also the
potential hit to growth as well if we
continue to deal with high gas prices
for a prolonged period. Uh and so that
certainly is what the market is dear is
is pricing in here at the moment. We'll
continue to watch what happens with
these disruptions uh as things look
right now in the Middle East and at the
Middle East markets, of course, uh open
up and and wake up to this reality of
what we're seeing uh in Asia. So, um
what else are you watching, Dave? I
mean, it seems like as as Lanting
mentioned, you know, uh you know, equity
traders at least now are putting up
hedges everywhere. Head- headline risk,
right?
It's not happening today. It happened
yesterday. Something strange happened in
the Japanese markets. The cash market
was up. Uh the Nikkei volatility index
was up. Normally, you don't see those
two things move
in tandem like that, but it just
underscores against the hedging that's
taking place here
in the region. Okay, it's worth pointing
out that we are coming off highs ever so
slightly
on Brent. Dollar yen is now back above
159. That's not the high of the session
so far. The high of the session was
159.24
very early on in the Tokyo session. What
is now at session lows
is the MSCI Asia Pacific. We're now down
1.6%
I guess as we continue to digest the
news and the extent to which and it's
certainly not it's a net negative. We're
trying to figure out of course markets
are trying to sort of triangulate the
extent to which this is a negative. But
the fact that you are getting
precautionary and understandably
precautionary measures for facilities
there in the Middle East talking about
how they're taking things offline given
everything that's happening within the
vicinity is obviously bad news
as it pertains to the oil supply market.
And really if you think about the amount
of oil that is being released from
strategic reserves and how quickly that
is actually able to get to the buyers
where they're needed, you understand why
the price dynamics are wrong across the
Brent curve is the short end is really
leading the price gains we're seeing
across oil prices which I guess
underscores to some extent
some relief further out into the futures
curve. But yes, we are very
sensitive to headline risk as we speak
here.
>> So we're watching what happens in the
Middle East. You're also hearing the
rhetoric from President Trump which I
think the market has is is now kind of
ignoring, right? When he's talking about
the US is looking to finish the job in
this Iran campaign.
Meanwhile, you're hearing from Iran
according to our sources
that if there is in fact some sort of
ceasefire the US must guarantee neither
it the US Mhm. nor Israel will strike in
the country in the future. So it's not
just a US story, it's also what the
Israel
and really what their you know
circumstance and perspective is on all
this as well.
But you know, when it comes to Iran side
of things, we have not seen them in any
way try any light up in sight when it
comes to their sort of attacks. So,
certainly you know, there is both sides
seem very far apart and any sort of
ceasefire at this moment just based on
what we're seeing across the headlines.
>> Yeah, I think Jill Disath who joined us
earlier on had really good context here,
right? Because it's unclear to many
people still what a win will look like
and what that how do we know if the US
has won? We know in terms of military
supremacy that is on that side, but you
know, how do we
know with any conclusion that they have
won? The other thing that Jill pointed
out which I think is is is equally if
not more important, even if the US and
Iran somehow managed to head back to the
negotiating table over the short term,
the question Iran would then ask
according to Jill is that what
guarantees can the US give that Israel
will also align itself along those
lines. So, we have a lot of moving parts
here too to get into. John Herskovitz is
with us right now to take you through
the latest here. John, what do we know
about what's going on? A lot of breaking
news suddenly here across the markets.
Um some worries in Oman where the
that involves the closure of the port.
This follows what happened with attacks
on two vessels in
Iraq's oil processing port port. And
this has driven Brent crude up above
100. So, the
$100 barrel. So, the relief that came
from the release of these strategic
petroleum reserves, a coordinated
release, has quickly been offset with
developments in the in the region,
attacks on ports, closures, and this has
just added to concerns of what's going
on with oil and oil prices are going up.
And and John, it's interesting, too,
that
what what is
What's telling about this Oman situation
is that it's not just what we're seeing
in terms of disruptions in the Strait of
Hormuz. We also have to track what's
going on outside of this key waterway as
well, when, you know, this is where a
large portion of a lot of these Middle
Eastern countries are are shipping or at
least exporting that crude, too. So, it
seems like things are are getting worse
and not better.
Exactly. You're exactly right. I mean,
the what we see going on in Oman and
Iraq show that this is this is beyond
the Strait of Hormuz, that other ports
are also at risk, that this is
region-wide, and it's going to have It
looks like it's going to have a profound
effect on the shipment of oil to places
around the world. I'm in Japan now, a
key importer of oil, especially oil that
transports through the Strait of Hormuz.
There are concerns about this in markets
in Asia around the world. So,
and the worries about what was going on
in Hormuz are spreading. And we had a a
Bloomberg Economics that did a a
modeling of what may happen if there's a
1-month closure or a 3-month closure of
Hormuz, and it it means prices above
$100 and perhaps approaching $130, $140,
or more if the if the closure of Hormuz
is prolonged.
Yeah, I think it's 160 and change, 168,
I believe, from Ziad's team. John, thank
you so much. We scrambled you to camera.
Thank you. [music] We appreciate it on
this breaking news. Brent is now back
above 100 bucks, 166 right now on Brent.
India comes online the next hour, and I
imagine this that market will take
[music] it on the chin, given everything
that's taken place. That's it from us
here on the China show. We'll see you
all tomorrow. Lots more coverage on the
breaking news coming through on
Bloomberg Television. Keep it here.
>> Mhm.